CodeMirror: Ruby mode
=====================

\# Code from http://sandbox.mc.edu/~bennet/ruby/code/poly\_rb.html \# \# This program evaluates polynomials. It first asks for the coefficients \# of a polynomial, which must be entered on one line, highest-order first. \# It then requests values of x and will compute the value of the poly for \# each x. It will repeatly ask for x values, unless you the user enters \# a blank line. It that case, it will ask for another polynomial. If the \# user types quit for either input, the program immediately exits. \# \# \# Function to evaluate a polynomial at x. The polynomial is given \# as a list of coefficients, from the greatest to the least. def polyval(x, coef) sum = 0 coef = coef.clone \# Don't want to destroy the original while true sum += coef.shift \# Add and remove the next coef break if coef.empty? \# If no more, done entirely. sum \*= x \# This happens the right number of times. end return sum end \# \# Function to read a line containing a list of integers and return \# them as an array of integers. If the string conversion fails, it \# throws TypeError. If the input line is the word 'quit', then it \# converts it to an end-of-file exception def readints(prompt) \# Read a line print prompt line = readline.chomp raise EOFError.new if line == 'quit' \# You can also use a real EOF. \# Go through each item on the line, converting each one and adding it \# to retval. retval = \[ \] for str in line.split(/\\s+/) if str =~ /^\\-?\\d+$/ retval.push(str.to\_i) else raise TypeError.new end end return retval end \# \# Take a coeff and an exponent and return the string representation, ignoring \# the sign of the coefficient. def term\_to\_str(coef, exp) ret = "" \# Show coeff, unless it's 1 or at the right coef = coef.abs ret = coef.to\_s unless coef == 1 && exp &gt; 0 ret += "x" if exp &gt; 0 \# x if exponent not 0 ret += "^" + exp.to\_s if exp &gt; 1 \# ^exponent, if &gt; 1. return ret end \# \# Create a string of the polynomial in sort-of-readable form. def polystr(p) \# Get the exponent of first coefficient, plus 1. exp = p.length \# Assign exponents to each term, making pairs of coeff and exponent, \# Then get rid of the zero terms. p = (p.map { |c| exp -= 1; \[ c, exp \] }).select { |p| p\[0\] != 0 } \# If there's nothing left, it's a zero return "0" if p.empty? \# \*\*\* Now p is a non-empty list of \[ coef, exponent \] pairs. \*\*\* \# Convert the first term, preceded by a "-" if it's negative. result = (if p\[0\]\[0\] &lt; 0 then "-" else "" end) + term\_to\_str(\*p\[0\]) \# Convert the rest of the terms, in each case adding the appropriate \# + or - separating them. for term in p\[1...p.length\] \# Add the separator then the rep. of the term. result += (if term\[0\] &lt; 0 then " - " else " + " end) + term\_to\_str(\*term) end return result end \# \# Run until some kind of endfile. begin \# Repeat until an exception or quit gets us out. while true \# Read a poly until it works. An EOF will except out of the \# program. print "\\n" begin poly = readints("Enter a polynomial coefficients: ") rescue TypeError print "Try again.\\n" retry end break if poly.empty? \# Read and evaluate x values until the user types a blank line. \# Again, an EOF will except out of the pgm. while true \# Request an integer. print "Enter x value or blank line: " x = readline.chomp break if x == '' raise EOFError.new if x == 'quit' \# If it looks bad, let's try again. if x !~ /^\\-?\\d+$/ print "That doesn't look like an integer. Please try again.\\n" next end \# Convert to an integer and print the result. x = x.to\_i print "p(x) = ", polystr(poly), "\\n" print "p(", x, ") = ", polyval(x, poly), "\\n" end end rescue EOFError print "\\n=== EOF ===\\n" rescue Interrupt, SignalException print "\\n=== Interrupted ===\\n" else print "--- Bye ---\\n" end

**MIME types defined:** `text/x-ruby`.

Development of the CodeMirror Ruby mode was kindly sponsored by [Ubalo](http://ubalo.com/), who hold the [license](LICENSE).
