<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="" xml:lang="">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" />
  <title>april-08</title>
  <style type="text/css">
      code{white-space: pre-wrap;}
      span.smallcaps{font-variant: small-caps;}
      span.underline{text-decoration: underline;}
      div.column{display: inline-block; vertical-align: top; width: 50%;}
  </style>
</head>
<body>
<h1 id="ember-core-team-2016-04-08">Ember Core Team 2016-04-08</h1>
<h2 id="agenda">Agenda</h2>
<ul>
<li>(public rwjblue) Evaluate/discuss risk of backporting <a href="https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/12666">emberjs/ember.js#12666</a> into release-1-13 (<a href="https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/12666">original PR here</a> / <a href="https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/13220">backport PR here</a>)</li>
<li>(public rwjblue) <a href="https://github.com/emtberjs/ember.js/issues/13245">Issue/PR Triage</a></li>
<li>(public dgeb) Modules RFC Update</li>
<li>(public krisselden) supporting super() calls when there is no method overriden <a href="https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/13242">emberjs/ember.js#13242</a></li>
<li>(public) EmberConf followthrough (YK)</li>
<li>(public) Meta-package (YK)</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="attendees">Attendees</h2>
<p>MB, RJ, YK, GC, MM, IT, DG, AM, KS, TD, EF</p>
<h2 id="minutes">Minutes</h2>
<h4 id="meta-package">Meta-package</h4>
<p>YK: I want a way to upgrade with <code>ember upgrade beta</code> or something like this. The process now is a bit too manual. Robert thoughts?</p>
<p>RJ: This makes sense, but I think it is good that we are solving module normalization first. IMO we can prototype something easily and try it out ourselves.</p>
<p>EF: I suggest that too. We can build it in an additive way as well.</p>
<p>YK: There is some mental model for upgrades where you only need to upgrade a single thing instead of all the little ones</p>
<p>YK: And there are two things to upgrade, upgrading and app and the version of Ember installed on your machine</p>
<p>EF: When you <code>ember new</code> you should likely be prompted for a what version of ember you want to install.</p>
<p>RJ: I’m not opposed, this is all good developer UX that we should push forward. I want to focus my efforts on modules and testing for now.</p>
<p>YK: Right and the max/min on getting the low-hanging fruit first.</p>
<p>YK: I want to publish a thing that lets you upgrade your app with a single command. And a subscription thing that reminds you when there is a new version available.</p>
<p>RJ: We added this for ember-cli itself recently. The package doing this is pretty generic, we should be able to re-use it when ember is an NPM module.</p>
<h4 id="evaluatediscuss-risk-of-backporting">Evaluate/discuss risk of backporting</h4>
<p>RJ: This is a patch that fixes a memory leak in Chrome: https://bugs.chromium.org/p/v8/issues/detail?id=4578&amp;thanks=4578&amp;ts=1448559714 The PR backports it to 1.13, but I am worried it is a huge change and risky. The bug has been hanging for 4 months and Chrome doesn’t seem to want to change it.</p>
<p>RJ: It basically fixes a memory leak perf issue in testing (and potentially FastBoot though FastBoot isn’t a 1.13 thing). But prod/dev perf is fine.</p>
<p>YK: we can inform people there are de-risking things they could do to to land it. Is there a hack?</p>
<p>RJ: there is a hack on the PR, you add a ton of text to keep the function from inlining</p>
<p>TD: this sounds like it is too big to backport without adding a bunch of risk.</p>
<p>EF: We can suggest if someone can solve this in a low-risk way we would accept a patch.</p>
<h4 id="issuepr-triage">Issue/PR triage</h4>
<p>RJ: we have an issue for this, Bill has been doing issue triage in Fridays for a while now. Can we grant commit-bit to some people for doing issue triage?</p>
<p>YK: Seems good for people we trust and who understand issue triage is the boundary.</p>
<p>TD: I’ve never had an issue with granting this before</p>
<p>RJ: awesome, thanks</p>
<h4 id="supporting-_super-calls-when-there-is-no-method-overridden">Supporting _super calls when there is no method overridden</h4>
<p>KS: In ES6 if you call super and there is nothing there it is an error. I want to attempt to unwind supporting this behavior. We’ve taken care of it not infinite looping (like we used to do). I think we should keep it as is but provide an error.</p>
<p>RJ: The thing that is convenient to tell people is that they can just call _super on framework hooks</p>
<p>KS: those hooks should always be on the base class though</p>
<p>YK: you suggest that if there is a framework hook they should call _super. the problem is that if there is a thing there and you don’t know the semantics it is possible there is a bug anyway (do you pass arguments? is there a return value?)</p>
<p>KS: We’ve been bad in the past with adding a method that it supered after the fact, and bad about documenting the default hook implementation. We just have a bad habit, ObjectiveC went through the same thing, and now you need to call _super if you override something.</p>
<p>YK: I think this part of the conversation (should you need to call _super, is on( a mis-feature) isn’t related to the proposal.</p>
<p>YK: I’d like to see this on the glimmer object model, in a test</p>
<p>(discussion of how we would add an error to the root)</p>
<p>Kicked back to technical discussion. General consensus that a) all framework hooks should have a base method defined by the framework b) if you call _super and there is not a method there, it should error (ala ES6, and helps us handle some errors like the one raised). c) the technical path for some of this is still vague.</p>
<h4 id="modules-rfc-update">Modules RFC Update</h4>
<p>DG: There are still a few tradeoffs that need to be decided. Let’s try to get consensus on this stuff by next week so I can update the RFC</p>
<p>DG: Some items still to be decided: Broadly speaking there is a concept of where to place utilities (non framework modules).</p>
<p>RJ: I’d certainly like to still have other files in there.</p>
<p>YK: we should make sure you put the files we know about in the right places, but other than that it seems good. Perhaps there is a strict mode that would warn for unknown files or something.</p>
<p>EF: Asserting that you have hbs files with hbs content and js files with js content would be helpful.</p>
<p>DG: I think the more challenging part is with JS lib files. If you have an md5.js file, that would conflict with a future type of md5 in the modules/ directory.</p>
<p>DG: Another set of tradeoffs is visibility of addons/engines to apps. But I need to rethink it for this regions proposal. Happy to work with people.</p>
<p>RJ: Hopefully I’ll be spiking on it the middle of next week.</p>
<p>TD: Where is the testing RFC?</p>
<p>RJ: I need to update the RFC with the final insight, perhaps I can do that and we merge next week. There are ecosystem things that need to happen (eslint) and such that are moving forward already. I am excited.</p>
<h4 id="emberconf-followthrough">EmberConf Followthrough</h4>
<p>YK: I’d like to continue to follow through with some of the items from the conf keynote (and Portland F2F) and start to track it</p>
<p>RJ: Let’s create a list of the various items discussed in the keynote, and continue to check in on them during our meetings (as a recurring task item).</p>
<p>YK: Sounds good.</p>
</body>
</html>
