# Topics

- Review action items from last week

  - [ ] DB: Contact @trek re: SEO questions and to ask for original context
  - [x] DB: Add script tag for the ember-cli PR, may not be accepted, but Matt is happy to review (and possibly help get it in) - https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/issues/4977
  - [ ] MB: Will see about having the survey intern help with new styling for header
  - [ ] TJ: Will check on private api info leaking through on API viewer (waiting on this until next week)
  - [x] RM: Will contact Ember Weekly / Ember Watch folks (week before last)
  - [ ] RT: Update on Screencast

- Give Todd a write bit
- new Ember docs viewer, offline support - fivetanley - https://github.com/fivetanley/ember-jsonapi-docs
- PRs / where we stand?
  - [thumbs up/down on add/remove colors for code blocks?](https://github.com/emberjs/guides/pull/1283) - David
  - [glossary update?](https://github.com/emberjs/guides/pull/1202) - Locks
  - [Algolia search](https://github.com/emberjs/guides/pull/1202) - David
    - how do we get unblocked here? ship for current guides so we can see what we think of it, decide if we do think it's better?
- link back to guides for 1.13 (actions, prototype extensions) - Locks
- Issues
  - [issues and pr template?](https://github.com/emberjs/guides/issues/1273) - what do we think?
  - [mixed content issues](https://github.com/emberjs/guides/issues/1241) - assigned to David, I don't want to worry about backporting this type of fix myself ...
  - [updating 1.13 docs for Ember-CLI](https://github.com/emberjs/guides/issues/1208) - this seems important to backport
  - welcome add-on: [discuss text briefly](https://usecanvas.com/ember-docs/welcome-drafts/33KmyOjhfBdrTmJeIx1dn4)
- David
  - continuous deployment setup? - David
    - Would like to see this automatically showing up at /current
    - seems like this would really help work through SEO stuff as well (easier to test out changes quickly instead of current, somewhat cumbersome deploy process)
  - documenting LTS releases as part of guides? - David
  - Bring back "Understanding Ember" section?  quite useful from a "big picture" perspective about how Ember works

# Minutes

## Attendees

- Todd (TJ)
- David (DB)
- Stanley (SS)

## Notes

### Ember Docs Viewer

- Stanley's api viewer to become the versioned api viewer going forward.
- Discussion on how to get folks to help with it.
- David to recruit from the Denver meetup for help on this.

### New Content Proposals

Discussed each briefly between TJ and DB.  To bring up again with larger group

- DB: Needshelp status board.  For each Ember Subteam.  This could be hosted on emberjs website, or ember watch.  Could also highlight some important ember addons in need of help.

- DB: Also would like a website page on how the ember community and core team works.  It would provide information on how decisions are made and the community governed.

- Pull Request Template: Take advantage of the github feature to encourage reporters to provide the right information.

### Misc

- Discussed having Todd join the Docs team, overall we're a thumbs up :-)  Congrats Todd!
- Thumbsup'd Dave's highlight style change.  Todd did his first homu merge \o/

### Additional Status from RM
- emberjs/api dev is halted, we'll coordinate with @fivetanley to share resources for the guides viewer as well
- translations phase 1 are going well for emberconf, need to figure out infrastructure
- getting some emberwatch help
- welcome-page is awaiting final copy
- want status on builds/statusboard
- haven't started on tom's developer tools for CLI
