# 2016-02-18 Agenda

# Topics

- Review action items from last week

  - [x] DB: will research SEO issues further, canonical, will send Tom an issue
  - [x] TD: will signal boost SEO issues on Twitter
  - [x] LS: will let CodeSchool folks know couldn't see tutorial
  - [x] TJ: will keep working on tutorial
  - [ ] RM: will contact Ember Weekly / Ember Watch folks
  - [x] RT: will start working on screencast for quick start

- DB
  - Ember as CMS update (paused for now thanks to good advice from Robert Jackson)
  - Docs structure (how do we want to organize this?)
    - high level, but needed for design folks
  - Codeschool tutorial, thinking replacement for tutorial? Sounded like YK and TD were thinking different things ...
  - builds failing (post internationalization)
- ??

# Action Items

- [ ] David: still want to contact Trek re: SEO questions, ask for original context
- [ ] David: add in a script tag for the ember-cli PR, may not be accepted, but Matt is happy to review (and possibly help get it in) - https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/issues/4977
- [ ] Matt: will see about having the survey intern help with new styling for header 
- [ ] Todd: will check on private api info leaking through on API viewer

# Minutes

## Attendees

- Todd
- David
- Leah
- Matthew
- Ryan

## Notes

Codeschool tutorial: looking forward to seeing how things go, may end up having videos aimed at LTS releases.  Started reviewing the CodeSchool materials and so far so good. Short conversation about the specifics of the material and having it _plus_ having our own in-house super-rentals tutorial (text / git repo)

---

### Getting Started Experience

- Ember-CLI landing page could use some love. Leah remembered [posting a Tomster in response to an Issue about](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/issues/4977) this but nothing happened with it. 
- Speak to next steps on the Welcome page after starting the project for the first time, including...
  - Watchman  (Leah mentioned the warning threw her as a newbie.  ways to improve these to be friendlier?)
  - Phantomjs (apparently hit errors with this when start testing if don't have it installed per Todd)
- David to work on a PR that provides this.  Instead of hardcoding a bunch of CSS and markup in the application template, discussed alternatives such as including a script tag(Matt) or component (todd)

---

### Site Redesign Discussion

Leah: The current redesigns have stalled again. I'm in minority, but actually not bothered by current design of the site. happy to have the current site reworked design-wise by people (either new design or using the guides CSS) if someone wants to put in the time/effort.

Matt: Would be nice to see it responsive

Todd: Would be nice to see just the same theme from the guides propagated to the rest

Matt: (intern) Is going to add a page for the survey that will be responsive.  Will update the heading style universally as part of that work.

---

starting brainstorming on resources (put in a canvas file, share them and we'll update the Community page in a bit) 
