# 2016-04-07 Agenda

# Previously

- [ ] RT continues with consistent voice updates in quickstart (no merge 'til emberconf)
- [x] SV: Take a look at welcome page PR to see if he can take it forward (done by DB)
- [x] DB: Research schema.org as an SEO solution 
- [ ] YK: Reach out to google contacts for SEO guidance of ember docs

# Topics

- Get Todd write access to super-rentals
- Learning team GitHub org?
  - pros: easier management
  - cons: fragmentation
- https://github.com/emberjs/guides/issues/1352
- https://github.com/emberjs/guides/pull/1346
- Ember CLI Developer Tools
- Standardize "need help"/"good for new contributors"/etc
  - your first pr ?
- API Effort: 
  - https://usecanvas.com/ember-docs/legacy-api-doc-improvements/6b9Ag2BUCRrn55E2Pyi0Yj
- [TodoMVC](https://github.com/tastejs/todomvc/pull/1582)

# Action Items

- [ ] DB: clean up of issues, PRs on the guides repo
- [ ] DB: remind @wycats to reach out to google contact about SEO
- [ ] TJ: reach out to a core team member on getting access to write to super rentals, and assign ownership on guides.
- [ ] TJ: fix Kris Seldon's private hiding PR and get it merged
- [ ] TJ: review private api handling in website API successor
- [ ] RM: reach out to @wifelette about creating a learning repo and next steps on website navigation restructure.

# Minutes

## Attendees

- David (DB) @acorncom
- Todd Jordan (TJ) @todd.jordan
- Ricardo Mendes (RM) @locks

## Notes

### Trello Cleanup:

Currently we have documentation, planning, and infrastructure

DB: I propose removing infrastructure, changing planning to "active", and changing documentation, to "planning backlog". _Done_

### API docs:

TJ: will try to fix krisseldon's pr on hiding privates as a stop gap until Stanley's api doc rewrite lands.  Will also look at the privates approach in the new API docs effort

### Issue cleanup

DB: propose removing internal pie-in-the-sky ideas out of the issues boards and onto trello.  Issues would be reserved for external people issues, and tracking implementation of tasks.

### Learning Navigation

RM: Propose to replace the "Guides" with "Learn" and encompass Guides, Fastboot, CLI, Contributing, etc

RM: Also propose a learning team github org.  Would give us more control over learning-specific projects. Would house guides, api, super-rentals, etc.  

RM: Will talk with Leah about next steps.

### Learning meeting

RM: I propose we start limiting the learning meeting to 30 minutes as long as we are staying on top of our backlog. _no decision made_
