<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="" xml:lang="">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" />
  <title>april-07</title>
  <style type="text/css">
      code{white-space: pre-wrap;}
      span.smallcaps{font-variant: small-caps;}
      span.underline{text-decoration: underline;}
      div.column{display: inline-block; vertical-align: top; width: 50%;}
  </style>
</head>
<body>
<h1 id="agenda">2016-04-07 Agenda</h1>
<h1 id="previously">Previously</h1>
<ul>
<li>[ ] RT continues with consistent voice updates in quickstart (no merge ’til emberconf)</li>
<li>[x] SV: Take a look at welcome page PR to see if he can take it forward (done by DB)</li>
<li>[x] DB: Research schema.org as an SEO solution</li>
<li>[ ] YK: Reach out to google contacts for SEO guidance of ember docs</li>
</ul>
<h1 id="topics">Topics</h1>
<ul>
<li>Get Todd write access to super-rentals</li>
<li>Learning team GitHub org?
<ul>
<li>pros: easier management</li>
<li>cons: fragmentation</li>
</ul></li>
<li>https://github.com/emberjs/guides/issues/1352</li>
<li>https://github.com/emberjs/guides/pull/1346</li>
<li>Ember CLI Developer Tools</li>
<li>Standardize “need help”/“good for new contributors”/etc
<ul>
<li>your first pr ?</li>
</ul></li>
<li>API Effort:
<ul>
<li>https://usecanvas.com/ember-docs/legacy-api-doc-improvements/6b9Ag2BUCRrn55E2Pyi0Yj</li>
</ul></li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/tastejs/todomvc/pull/1582">TodoMVC</a></li>
</ul>
<h1 id="action-items">Action Items</h1>
<ul>
<li>[ ] DB: clean up of issues, PRs on the guides repo</li>
<li>[ ] DB: remind <span class="citation" data-cites="wycats">@wycats</span> to reach out to google contact about SEO</li>
<li>[ ] TJ: reach out to a core team member on getting access to write to super rentals, and assign ownership on guides.</li>
<li>[ ] TJ: fix Kris Seldon’s private hiding PR and get it merged</li>
<li>[ ] TJ: review private api handling in website API successor</li>
<li>[ ] RM: reach out to <span class="citation" data-cites="wifelette">@wifelette</span> about creating a learning repo and next steps on website navigation restructure.</li>
</ul>
<h1 id="minutes">Minutes</h1>
<h2 id="attendees">Attendees</h2>
<ul>
<li>David (DB) <span class="citation" data-cites="acorncom">@acorncom</span></li>
<li>Todd Jordan (TJ) <span class="citation" data-cites="todd.jordan">@todd.jordan</span></li>
<li>Ricardo Mendes (RM) <span class="citation" data-cites="locks">@locks</span></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="notes">Notes</h2>
<h3 id="trello-cleanup">Trello Cleanup:</h3>
<p>Currently we have documentation, planning, and infrastructure</p>
<p>DB: I propose removing infrastructure, changing planning to “active”, and changing documentation, to “planning backlog”. <em>Done</em></p>
<h3 id="api-docs">API docs:</h3>
<p>TJ: will try to fix krisseldon’s pr on hiding privates as a stop gap until Stanley’s api doc rewrite lands. Will also look at the privates approach in the new API docs effort</p>
<h3 id="issue-cleanup">Issue cleanup</h3>
<p>DB: propose removing internal pie-in-the-sky ideas out of the issues boards and onto trello. Issues would be reserved for external people issues, and tracking implementation of tasks.</p>
<h3 id="learning-navigation">Learning Navigation</h3>
<p>RM: Propose to replace the “Guides” with “Learn” and encompass Guides, Fastboot, CLI, Contributing, etc</p>
<p>RM: Also propose a learning team github org. Would give us more control over learning-specific projects. Would house guides, api, super-rentals, etc.</p>
<p>RM: Will talk with Leah about next steps.</p>
<h3 id="learning-meeting">Learning meeting</h3>
<p>RM: I propose we start limiting the learning meeting to 30 minutes as long as we are staying on top of our backlog. <em>no decision made</em></p>
</body>
</html>
