# Ember Core Team 2016-07-01

### Agenda

- [Module Unification FCP Comments](https://gist.github.com/dgeb/20127d3fa1199426e59e60b9cdf20b43) (DG)
- Docs items (LS)

### Attendees

RJ, MB, KS, EF, DG, SP, GC, IT, LS, MM, EB

### Minutes

#### Module Unification FCP Comments

- DG: There are several new issues raised:
  https://gist.github.com/dgeb/20127d3fa1199426e59e60b9cdf20b43
- re: dash prefix, we have some internal discussion backing up this decision
  that we should communicate. Precedence seems an ok point of view to take.
- We will go back to the strike team for discussion and re-enter FCP after some
  discussion.

#### Docs items

LS: There are some notes from @locks we need someone to get back on. I have an
update for the website that is about to go live with changes to the tomsters
page, the corporate tomsters as well.

SP: Do we have tomsters for training stuff? that say "unofficial"

LS: I will ponder. It seems odd to say "unofficial", as that devalues the
official stuff. Also corporations like LinkedIn aren't really selling into
Ember, like training is.
