# 2016-06-30 Agenda

Previously

- [x] TJ: Coordinate getting out a quality tutorial in the April-May timeframe
- [ ] TJ: Private API work (on hold)
- [ ] TJ: work with volunteers to finish subroutes in tutorial
 
# Topics

- Fastboot environment followup (for new Ember site) - LS
- Learn team repos / Permissions bot update (we're ready ) - DB
- Learn page - RM
- F2F core notes + annotations - RM
- Barely any Mixin reference in the Guides (are these discouraged?)
- Tutorial Update
- Ember Data / imports issue - BM
- Cleaning up actions, to make the various approaches easier to understand? - DB
- Blog post about Learning team - RM
 
# Minutes

## Attendees

- DB: David Baker @acorncom
- TJ: Todd Jordan @toddjordan
- LS: Leah Silber @wifette
- RM: Ricardo Mendes @locks
- SK: Sivakumar Kailasam @siva
- BM: Brendan McLoughlin @bmac
 
## Notes

---

### Fastboot / Ember site

- LS: will contact Heroku, slipped through the cracks
 
### Builds page app

- siva gonna push it over finish line
- deploy builds to S3
- website links directly
 
### Ember Data, change to blueprints

- BM: wanting to revert changes to Ember Data import format
- RM / DB: we're in favor, would love to work out the larger import shim question as well so guides include accurate import statements
 
