<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="" xml:lang="">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" />
  <title>may-26</title>
  <style type="text/css">
      code{white-space: pre-wrap;}
      span.smallcaps{font-variant: small-caps;}
      span.underline{text-decoration: underline;}
      div.column{display: inline-block; vertical-align: top; width: 50%;}
  </style>
</head>
<body>
<h1 id="agenda">2016-05-26 Agenda</h1>
<h1 id="previously">Previously</h1>
<ul>
<li>[ ] RM: research using NPM release info (in json file)</li>
<li>[ ] DB: Algolia, get going on this</li>
<li>[x] DB: SEO, link rel=“canonical”, get started</li>
<li>[x] TD: write a blog post on subteams</li>
<li>[ ] RT continues with consistent voice updates in quickstart (no merge ’til emberconf)</li>
<li>[ ] TJ: Coordinate getting out a quality tutorial in the April-May timeframe</li>
<li>[ ] TJ: Private API work (on hold)</li>
<li>[ ] RM: Brain Dump of Controllers with EB</li>
<li>[ ] Barely any Mixin reference in the Guides#</li>
<li>[x] Move super-rentals to ember-learn</li>
<li>[x] Move style addon to ember-learn (TJ)</li>
<li>[x] Work out how to get permissions bot going for Ember Learn (DB / RM)</li>
</ul>
<h1 id="topics">Topics</h1>
<ul>
<li>Tutorial Update https://github.com/emberjs/guides/issues/1374
<ul>
<li>style/addon sections merged</li>
<li>acceptance test section PR’ing</li>
<li>started work on accessibility section for GAAD
<ul>
<li>Should it be a tutorial section, a guides section, or separate article somewhere?</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Some volunteers <code>@sbaston5</code>, <code>@futhey</code> are working on subroutes section</li>
<li>What would be next?</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Forked super-rentals, style addon into learn repo, what are next steps to sunset?</li>
<li>Cleaning up actions, to make the various approaches easier to understand? - DB</li>
<li>Organize guides to somewhat match pods-structure long-term? - DB</li>
</ul>
<h1 id="action-items">Action Items</h1>
<ul>
<li>[x] DB: put in an issue about organizing actions</li>
<li>[x] DB: check with Siva re: permissions bot</li>
<li>[ ] TJ: work with volunteers to finish subroutes in tutorial</li>
</ul>
<h1 id="minutes">Minutes</h1>
<h2 id="attendees">Attendees</h2>
<ul>
<li>DB: David Baker <span class="citation" data-cites="acorncom">@acorncom</span></li>
<li>TJ: Todd Jordan <span class="citation" data-cites="toddjordan">@toddjordan</span></li>
<li>EI: Ibrahim Emad <span class="citation" data-cites="eibrahim">@eibrahim</span></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="notes">Notes</h2>
<hr />
<h3 id="previous-todos">Previous Todos</h3>
<ul>
<li>DB: Siva’s working on permissions bot. Will follow up</li>
<li>DB: Been making some progress on help wanted. Just slow with lack of time.</li>
<li>EI: Would be interested in helping help wanted. Would just need some guidance on what to focus on.</li>
<li>DB: <em>Gives some direction/vision</em></li>
<li>EI: Will continue submitting PRs</li>
<li>TJ: Tutorials update, discussion on whether there should be an accessibility section. Todd will start with an article and get feedback on whether it should go into the tutorial. Other ember ecosystem concepts that could be in the tutorial: fastboot, liquid fire. Might to too advance for what we want in a tutorial? Not decisions made.</li>
<li>DB: We have actions in multiple places right now (templates (basic string), component (closure)). Is there some way to link the two? Will write up issue.</li>
<li>DB: Should we update guides structure to reflect new pods-structure</li>
<li>TJ: not sure. worth some thought. Write issue or trello task?</li>
<li>TJ: forked super-rentals and addon on ember learn repo. What are next steps. Still PRs open</li>
<li>DB: lets wait for permissions bot and just move it. Delete forks for now.</li>
<li>DB: More work to do on Algolia. Need to put in a couple things the Algolia folks gave me and then merge. There’ll be a lot more work to support the old releases.</li>
<li>DB: what about API work. Should we remove it from the todos?</li>
<li>TJ: was waiting for the api rewrite,</li>
<li>DB: want to move api work into ember learn repo. waiting on permission bot.</li>
</ul>
</body>
</html>
