# Table

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>This table should align left</th><th>type</th><th>browsers</th><th>message</th><th>line</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td>This row should align Center</td><td>This cell should align right</td><td>FF, Safari, Opera</td><td>Don't declare width and either padding or borders on the same element.</td><td>3</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>67</td><td>broken box model</td><td>FF, Safari, Opera</td><td>Don't declare width and either padding or borders on the same element.</td><td>3</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>15</td><td>broken box model</td><td>FF, Safari, Opera</td><td>Don't declare width and either padding or borders on the same element.</td><td>3</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>20</td><td>broken box model</td><td>FF, Safari, Opera</td><td>Don't declare width and either padding or borders on the same element.</td><td>3</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>35</td><td>broken box model</td><td>FF, Safari, Opera</td><td>Don't declare width and either padding or borders on the same element.</td><td>3</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>35</td><td>broken box model</td><td>FF, Safari, Opera</td><td>Don't declare width and either padding or borders on the same element.</td><td>3</td></tr></tbody></table>

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>error</th><th>type</th><th>browsers</th><th>message</th><th>line</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td>35</td><td>broken box model</td><td>FF, Safari, Opera</td><td>Don't declare width and either padding or borders on the same element.</td><td>3</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>67</td><td>broken box model</td><td>FF, Safari, Opera</td><td>Don't declare width and either padding or borders on the same element.</td><td>3</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>15</td><td>broken box model</td><td>FF, Safari, Opera</td><td>Don't declare width and either padding or borders on the same element.</td><td>3</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>20</td><td>broken box model</td><td>FF, Safari, Opera</td><td>Don't declare width and either padding or borders on the same element.</td><td>3</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>35</td><td>broken box model</td><td>FF, Safari, Opera</td><td>Don't declare width and either padding or borders on the same element.</td><td>3</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>35</td><td>broken box model</td><td>FF, Safari, Opera</td><td>Don't declare width and either padding or borders on the same element.</td><td>3</td></tr></tbody></table>
