Attending:

* David Baker
* Michael Kaiser-Nyman
* Ricardo Mendes

---

MKN: MDN says don't use font smoothing.

DB: But it looks better except for code blocks. If we take it out we'll need to redesign.

MKN: Let's turn it off for code highlighting, add the equivalent moz- prefix so it is consistent across browsers, and we can fix later.

DB: Sounds good.

---

MKN: Divshot closes in 4 days. I haven't heard about Firebase hosting. I'll ping Leah and Tom. I'll do another deploy so the switch is ready to go.

DB: Who is in charge of deploys?

MKN: Me and locks. We need to get you on. I'll ask Leah to add you once we have Firebase straightened out.

---

MKN: What is wrong with Typekit?

DB: Tom put that code in. I'll ping him to ask. Oh, the code comment says to contact Leah if there are problems. I'll ping her.

---

MKN: 3 people are interested in helping on the tutorial: mattw59 on autocomplete component, rtablada on helpers (and component lifecycle hooks), todd.jordan on something but not sure what. I'll ask him to do the Google Maps service and component.

DB: I might work on deploying.

---

DB: Is the versioned API docs app a priority?

RM: It is a bit hard to work on. The repo is at https://github.com/emberjs/api/.

MKN: We need issues on there so people know where to start.

RM: I can work with rwjblue to see where it's at.

MKN: Try to document what needs to be done in issues.

DB: I have somebody who might want to work on it and might be able to rope in a few people.

---

MKN: The 2.2 release blog post says 2.3 features are visit API, hash helper, contextual components, and owners. Docs for owners are in. Are the other features landing? Who is doing docs?

RM: The visit API is too advanced for guides right now. I think hash helper has landed.

MKN: I will put out a documentation request.
